# Pattern indicators

Pattern-based indicators are technical analysis tools that identify specific
chart patterns or formations in price data. These indicators help traders
recognize recurring patterns that can provide insights into potential price
movements and market trends.

Pattern-based indicators analyze historical price data and apply predefined
rules to identify patterns that have shown statistical significance in the
past. These patterns can include well-known chart patterns like triangles, head
and shoulders, double tops/bottoms, and more.

The indicators typically generate signals when a specific pattern is detected.
These signals can indicate potential trend reversals, trend continuations, or
breakouts, depending on the pattern identified. Traders use these signals to
make trading decisions, such as entering or exiting positions, placing
stop-loss orders, or adjusting risk management strategies.

Pattern-based indicators are often used in conjunction with other technical
analysis tools to confirm signals and enhance the accuracy of trading
decisions. They provide a visual representation of market sentiment and can
help traders anticipate future price movements based on historical patterns.

## Fractals

The Fractal indicator is a technical analysis tool that helps identify
potential reversal points in price trends. It is based on the concept of
fractals, which are mathematical formations that highlight key levels of
support and resistance on a price chart.

A fractal pattern consists of a series of at least five consecutive bars, where
the middle bar has the highest high (or lowest low) surrounded by two lower
high (or higher low) bars on each side. The fractal pattern indicates a
potential turning point in the market, suggesting that the previous trend may
be losing strength and a reversal could occur.

When a bullish fractal forms, it indicates a potential upward reversal. It
occurs when the middle bar has the highest high surrounded by two lower high
bars on each side. Conversely, a bearish fractal indicates a potential downward
reversal. It occurs when the middle bar has the lowest low surrounded by two
higher low bars on each side.

Traders use the Fractal indicator to identify important levels in the market
and to anticipate potential breakouts or trend changes. Fractals can be used in
various trading strategies, such as placing stop-loss orders, determining entry
and exit points, or confirming other technical analysis signals.
